Refactoring and README improvements (#1)
lheckemann/lx2k-nix: README.md

# NixOS on the HoneyComb / ClearFog LX2k

This repo contains minimal viable Nix expressions for NixOS installer images and UEFI
firmwares for the following machines:

* [HoneyComb LX2K][lx2k-store]

# Prerequisites

Before starting, you should ensure you have:

* Any additional required hardware is properly installed.

>   The default memory speed is 3200mhz. If your memory is slower, you will need to specify a different speed.

Reviewer: Maybe we should default to 2400MHz for maximum compatibility.

Author: How about no default, so the arg has to be passed?

Reviewer: I think 2400MHz is a good default since it'll work with any RAM, but I don't feel strongly about this.

> * A Linux machine with Nix installed.

Reviewer: An aarch64 one, to be more specific :sweat_smile:

Author: I... built on amd x86_64?

Reviewer: Using a remote aarch64 builder, I'm guessing?

```bash
nix-build -A lx2k.isoImage -o isoImage --arg ddrSpeed 3200
nix-build -A lx2k.uefi -o uefi.img
```

Use `lsblk` to take a look at the block devices within `/dev`:

```bash
$ lsblk -o NAME,SIZE,MODEL,SERIAL,STATE
NAME          SIZE MODEL                     SERIAL             STATE
sda         465.8G Samsung_SSD_860_EVO_500GB S3Z1NB0K431062D    running
└─sda1      465.8G                                              
sdb           7.5G USB_Flash_Drive           AASB9S2CIA58DPXH   running # <-- USB Stick
sdc         238.9G UHSII_uSD_Reader          201912001648       running # <-- microSD card
nvme1n1     349.3G INTEL SSDPED1K375GA       PHKS750500HT375AGN live
├─nvme1n1p1   512M                                              
└─nvme1n1p2 348.8G                                                                                          
```

Then, copy the built images to those devices:

```bash
$ sudo cp -vi uefi.img /dev/sdc
cp: overwrite '/dev/sdc'? y
'uefi.img' -> '/dev/sdc'
$ sudo cp -vi isoImage/iso/*.iso /dev/sdb
cp: overwrite '/dev/sdb'? y
'isoImage/iso/nixos-21.03pre263901.68398d2dd50-aarch64-linux.iso' -> '/dev/sdb'
```

# Booting

> Plug the microUSB side of the microUSB cable into the port which registers `dmesg` as `FTDI`, not the `STM32`

Reviewer: Maybe mention that this port is labelled "CONSOLE" (not "MANAGEMENT") on the board
```suggestion
Plug the microUSB side of the microUSB cable into the port labelled CONSOLE on the board. It should show in `dmesg` as `FTDI`, not `STM32`.
```

(see step 2). Plug the other side into the host machine with FTDI drivers.

```bash
$ dmesg | grep FTDI
# ...
[...] usb 3-3: FTDI USB Serial Device converter now attached to ttyUSB0
```

Modify the `kermit-config`'s `set line /dev/ttyUSB${NUMBER}` option to represent the `ttyUSB${NUMBER}` shown in `dmesg` above.

```bash

> $ sudo nix-shell -p --run "kermit kermit-config"

Reviewer: `kermit` is missing from the command here. Or use picocom, then we don't need the extra file nor will modifying the file be necessary if the device gets a different number.
```suggestion
$ nix-shell -p kermit --run "sudo kermit kermit-config"
```
```suggestion
$ nix-shell -p picocom --run "sudo picocom /dev/ttyUSB0 -b 115200"
```

Author: Oh this is way better!
